Updated to Cloud Native Book - Chapter 1 (#13245)
dotnet/docs: docs/architecture/cloud-native/definition.md

---
title: Defining Cloud Native
description: Architecting Cloud Native .NET Apps for Azure | Defining Cloud Native
author: vettor

> ms.date: 06/30/2019

Author: Updated in all 4 files.

> author: vettor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
author: robvet
```

---
# Defining Cloud Native

> Stop what you’re doing and ping 10 of your colleagues. Ask them to define the term “Cloud Native.” Good chance you’ll get about 8 different answers. What’s even more interesting is that six months from now, as cloud native technologies and practices evolve, so will their definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stop what you’re doing and ping 10 of your colleagues. Ask them to define the term “Cloud Native.” Good chance you’ll get about eight different answers. What’s even more interesting is that six months from now, as cloud native technologies and practices evolve, so will their definition.
```

- These techniques enable loosely coupled systems that are resilient, manageable, and observable. Combined with robust automation, they allow engineers to make high-impact changes frequently and predictably with minimal toil.

Applications and their underlying systems have become increasingly complex with users demanding more and more. The new expectation is instantaneous responsiveness, up-to-the-minute features, and absolutely no downtime. Performance problems, recurring errors, and the inability to move fast are no longer acceptable to your business and customers.

> Among many things, cloud native is about *speed* and *agility*. Business critical systems are evolving from enablers of business capability to weapons of strategic transformation, accelerating business velocity and growth. Now, it’s imperative to get ideas to market immediately. Figure 1-1 presents three pioneers who have implemented these techniques. Think about the speed, agility, and scalability they have achieved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Among many things, cloud native is about *speed* and *agility*. Business critical systems are evolving from enablers of business capability to weapons of strategic transformation, accelerating business velocity and growth. Now, it’s imperative to get ideas to market immediately. Figure 1-1 presents three pioneers who have implemented these techniques. Think about the speed, agility, and scalability they've achieved.
```

![Companies embracing cloud native agility](media/companies-embracing-cloud-native.png)
**Figure 1-1**. Companies embracing cloud native agility

As you can see, eBay, Netflix and Uber expose systems that consist of hundreds of self-contained isolated microservices. Impressively, they can rapidly respond to market conditions by instantaneously updating specific functionality without having to fully deploy the entire system.

At its core, this agility derives from the architecture and infrastructure upon which the system is built and is composed of six capabilities, as shown in Figure 1-2.

![Capabilities of cloud native apps](media/capabilities-of-cloud-native-apps.png)
**Figure 1-2**. Capabilities of cloud native apps

As these capabilities are key to a cloud native system, let’s take some time to visit each.

## Thinking in terms of the cloud…

> Cloud native systems are *all about the cloud*: designed, developed, and deployed to thrive in a cloud environment. Development teams design these systems from the ground-up in a highly-dynamic, virtualized environment. They are built to exploit the platform and infrastructure capabilities of the cloud delivery model: elasticity, resilience, redundancy, orchestration, and on-demand features. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cloud native systems are *all about the cloud*: designed, developed, and deployed to thrive in a cloud environment. Development teams design these systems from the ground-up in a highly dynamic, virtualized environment. They're built to exploit the platform and infrastructure capabilities of the cloud delivery model: elasticity, resilience, redundancy, orchestration, and on-demand features. 
```

Reviewer: virtualized or virtual?

> Cloud native systems are *all about the cloud*: Designed, developed, and deployed to thrive in a cloud environment. Development teams design these systems from the ground-up in a highly-dynamic, virtualized environment. They are built to exploit the platform and infrastructure capabilities of the cloud delivery model: Elasticity, resilience, redundancy, orchestration, and on-demand features. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cloud native systems are *all about the cloud*: designed, developed, and deployed to thrive in a cloud environment. Development teams design these systems from the ground-up in a highly-dynamic, virtualized environment. They are built to exploit the platform and infrastructure capabilities of the cloud delivery model: elasticity, resilience, redundancy, orchestration, and on-demand features. 
```

> The focus moves to *how* the application is created and deployed, not so much *where*. Cloud native apps make extensive use of PaaS (Platform as a Service) infrastructure and managed services. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The focus moves to *how* the application is created and deployed, not so much *where*. Cloud native apps make extensive use of Platform as a Service (PaaS) infrastructure and managed services. 
```

> Figure 1-3 depicts the range of the full-featured compute services available in Azure. Moving from the top of the hierarchy to the bottom, your focus shifts from infrastructure plumbing to business functionality. Cloud native systems typically reside at the lower levels of the stack leveraging containers, PaaS, and Serverless environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Figure 1-3 shows the range of the full-featured compute services available in Azure. Moving from the top of the hierarchy to the bottom, your focus shifts from infrastructure plumbing to business functionality. Cloud native systems typically reside at the lower levels of the stack leveraging containers, PaaS, and serverless environments.
```

> Figure 1-3 depicts the range of the full-featured compute services available in Azure. Moving from the top of the hierarchy to the bottom, your focus shifts from infrastructure plumbing to business functionality. Cloud native systems typically reside at the lower levels of the stack leveraging containers, PaaS, and Serverless environments.

Reviewer: I think the original was better "As you move..."

Author: Fixed

![Azure compute stack](media/azure-compute-stack.png)
**Figure 1-3**. Azure compute stack

Cloud native systems typically view the underlying infrastructure as *disposable* - provisioned in minutes and resized, scaled, moved, or destroyed whenever necessary – all done through automation.

> Consider the argument of [Pets vs. Cattle](https://medium.com/@Joachim8675309/devops-concepts-pets-vs-cattle-2380b5aab313). In a traditional data center, servers are treated as *Pets*. They are typically a physical machine, given a meaningful name, and cared for. You scale by adding more resources to the same machine (scaling up). If one becomes sick, it is nursed back to health. When one becomes unavailable, everyone notices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider the argument of [Pets vs. Cattle](https://medium.com/@Joachim8675309/devops-concepts-pets-vs-cattle-2380b5aab313). In a traditional data center, servers are treated as *Pets*. They're typically a physical machine, given a meaningful name, and cared for. You scale by adding more resources to the same machine (scaling up). If one becomes sick, it's nursed back to health. When one becomes unavailable, everyone notices.
```

> Consider the argument of [Cattle vs. Pets](https://medium.com/@Joachim8675309/devops-concepts-pets-vs-cattle-2380b5aab313). In a traditional data center, servers are treated as *Pets*. They are typically a physical machine, given a meaningful name, and cared for. You scale by adding more resources to the same machine (scaling up). If one becomes sick, it is nursed back to health. When one becomes unavailable, everyone notices.

Reviewer: Should it be Pets vs Cattle?

Author: Fixed

> On the other hand, the *Cattle* service model is quite different. Provisioned as a virtual machine or container, each virtual instance is identical and assigned an identifier such as Service-01, Service-02, etc. When one has a problem, you automatically replace it with another, Service-03. When scaling, you *scale out* by creating more of them. When one become unavailable, nobody notices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the other hand, the *Cattle* service model is quite different. Provisioned as a virtual machine or container, each virtual instance is identical and assigned an identifier such as Service-01, Service-02, and so on. When one has a problem, you automatically replace it with another, Service-03. When scaling, you *scale out* by creating more of them. When one become unavailable, nobody notices.
```

> The cattle model moves toward *immutable infrastructure* in which servers are not repaired or modified. If a server fails or requires updating it is destroyed and a new one provisioned – all done via automation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cattle model moves toward *immutable infrastructure* in which servers are not repaired or modified. If a server fails or requires updating, it's destroyed and a new one is provisioned – all done via automation.
```

> Cloud native systems embrace dynamic infrastructure, the Cattle model, and continue to run as the infrastructure moves, resizes, and upgrades. They are able to scale up, down, in, or out and move across servers regardless of the machines upon which they are running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cloud native systems embrace dynamic infrastructure, the Cattle model, and continue to run as the infrastructure moves, resizes, and upgrades. They can scale up, down, in, or out and move across servers regardless of the machines upon which they're running.
```

Author: Great suggestion.

> - Each service is developed autonomously and can be deployed independently

Reviewer: each entry in this list should have a period. For example:

```suggestion
- Each service is developed autonomously and can be deployed independently.
```

> - Each service is self-contained: Encapsulates its domain, data, logic, and state, enabling it to embrace the data storage technology (SQL, NoSQL) and programming platform of choice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Each service is self-contained: encapsulates its domain, data, logic, and state, enabling it to embrace the data storage technology (SQL, NoSQL) and programming platform of choice.
```

### Why microservices?

> Why a microservices architecture? In short, it provides agility. You construct a system of related, but independent services, each having a granular and autonomous lifecycle. Each service can evolve independently and deploy frequently. You don’t wait for a quarterly release to deploy new features or updates. Deploying individual services upon demand enables agility and rapid iteration. You can update small areas of a large complex application with less risk of disrupting the entire system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Why a microservices architecture? In short, it provides agility. You build a system of related, but independent services, each having a granular and autonomous lifecycle. Each service can evolve independently and deploy frequently. You don’t wait for a quarterly release to deploy new features or updates. Deploying individual services upon demand enables agility and rapid iteration. You can update small areas of a large complex application with less risk of disrupting the entire system.
```

An additional benefit is that each microservice can scale in and out independently. Instead of scaling the entire application as a single unit, you scale out specific microservices that require more processing power or network bandwidth. This kind of fine-grained scalability provides greater control of your system and helps to reduce overall costs as you scale portions of your system, not everything.

Figure 1-4 contrasts a monolithic and microservices approach.

![Monolithic deployment versus microservices](media/monolithic-deployment-vs-microservices.jpg)
**Figure 1-4.** Monolithic deployment versus microservices

Cloud native systems are built as a set of independent microservices that can significantly increase agility.

## Thinking in terms of containers…

> The use of microservices go hand-in-hand with containerization, an approach to software deployment in which a service, its dependencies, configuration, and runtime are packaged together as a single unit, called an [image](https://docs.docker.com/glossary/?term=image). Images are stored in a [container registry](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/container-registry/), which can reside on your laptop, your data center, or in the public cloud. When needed, you can easily *pull* the image from the registry and transform it into a running container instance on any computer (development laptop, QA, Staging, Production, etc.) that has the Docker software engine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The use of microservices go hand in hand with containerization, an approach to software deployment in which a service, its dependencies, configuration, and runtime are packaged together as a single unit, called an [image](https://docs.docker.com/glossary/?term=image). Images are stored in a [container registry](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/container-registry/), which can reside on your laptop, your data center, or in the public cloud. When needed, you can easily *pull* the image from the registry and transform it into a running container instance on any computer (development laptop, QA, Staging, Production, etc.) that has the Docker software engine.
```

Reviewer: If you say any computer, do you really have to add the kinds of computer in parentheses?

### Benefits of containers

Containers provide portability and guarantee consistency across environments. By encapsulating everything into a single package, you *isolate* the application and its dependencies from the underlying environment. If the container runs on a development laptop, it will run in test and in production as well. In this manner, containerized workloads dramatically reduce the expense (and risk) of pre-configuring an environment and troubleshooting environment-specific issues.

Each [container](https://docs.docker.com/glossary/?term=container) runs on top of a container host (typically, [Docker](https://opensource.com/resources/what-docker)) that in turn runs on top of an OS (either Linux or Windows). Each running container shares the host operating system of the machine upon which it is running, resulting in a significantly smaller footprint than a full virtual machine (VM) instance. This smaller size increases the number of services that can run on a given VM, helping reduce overall cost.

> Each microservice typically runs in its own container, shown in Figure 1-5. In this example, we are running a Docker host on a single virtual machine, with four microservices running upon it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each microservice typically runs in its own container, as shown in Figure 1-5. In this example, there's a Docker host running on a single virtual machine, with four microservices running on it.
```

> ![Multiple containers running on a container host](media/multiple-containers-running-on-a-host.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Multiple containers running on a container host](media/multiple-containers-running-on-a-host.png)  
```

**Figure 1-5**. Multiple containers running on a container host

> Even though each container shares the OS on the underlying VM, each is isolated from one another. Both Linux and Windows container provide a high-degree of process isolation across running containers. However, Windows containers offer an even higher degree of isolation using its [Hype-V Container](https://docs.microsoft.com/virtualization/windowscontainers/manage-containers/hyperv-container) option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even though each container shares the OS of the underlying VM, each container is isolated from one another. Both Linux and Windows containers provide a high-degree of process isolation across running containers. However, Windows containers offer an even higher degree of isolation using its [Hyper-V Container](https://docs.microsoft.com/virtualization/windowscontainers/manage-containers/hyperv-container) option.
```

> Another benefit of containers is scalability. You can rapidly scale-out containers for spikes in traffic volume and quickly scale-in when no longer needed. When running multiple instances of the same container image, you typically deploy each to a different host VM inside of a cluster. This way, if one VM were to be unavailable, you could route requests to another VM that was operational. We’ll cover availability later in this book. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another benefit of containers is scalability. You can rapidly scale out containers for spikes in traffic volume and quickly scale in when no longer needed. When running multiple instances of the same container image, you typically deploy each to a different host VM inside of a cluster. This way, if one VM were to be unavailable, you could route requests to another VM that was operational. We’ll cover availability later in this book. 
```

### Developing in containers

> Many organizations already deploy finish development projects to containers. Code is built locally and containerized when complete. 

Reviewer: deploy finish?

Author: Let's go with, 'deploy finished development projects'

Containers offer immense benefits in terms of packaging, deploying and managing cloud native applications.

## Thinking in terms of cloud-hosted backing services…

Beyond cloud compute infrastructure, cloud native systems depend upon many different ancillary resources to operate: Data stores, message brokers, monitoring, and identity services - to name a few.

A backing service is any external resource on which an application relies for functionality. Figure 1-7 shows many common backing services consumed by cloud native systems.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

![Cloud native backing services](media/cloud-native-backing-services.png)
**Figure 1-7**. Cloud native backing services

> Your operations team could accept the responsibility for owning these ancillary services. It wouldn’t be hard to provision a VM and install an instance of the open source RabbitMQ message broker. While feasible, does that make sense - from a business perspective?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your operations team could accept the responsibility for owning these ancillary services. It wouldn’t be hard to provision a VM and install an instance of the open-source RabbitMQ message broker. While feasible, does that make sense - from a business perspective?
```

> Chances are you’re not in the message broker, database or identity server business. So, then, why incur the cost and complexity of owning these items when someone else can do it better and for less? No matter how skilled you may be, it is unlikely that you will be able to match the reliability and performance, say, of the fully-managed [Azure SQL Database](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/sql-database/) service in Azure. That Microsoft team that owns it lives and breathes databases, 24/7 - that’s their business. While you, on the other hand, sell consumer items, provide medical services, or deliver packages. Do what you're good at and let others help you with the rest. Focus your effort on building outstanding customer functionality, not becoming experts in 3rd party/open-source backing services.

Reviewer: you shouldn't use 24/7: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/term-collections/date-time-terms

don't use 3rd party: https://styleguides.azurewebsites.net/StyleGuide/Read?id=2696&topicid=39275

Author: Fixed

> Chances are you’re not in the message broker, database or identity server business. So, then, why incur the cost and complexity of owning these items when someone else can do it better and for less? No matter how skilled you may be, it is unlikely that you will be able to match the reliability and performance, say, of the fully-managed [Azure SQL Database](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/sql-database/) service in Azure. That Microsoft team that owns it lives and breathes databases - that’s their business. While you, on the other hand, sell consumer items, provide medical services, or deliver packages. Do what you're good at and let others help you with the rest. Focus your effort on building outstanding customer functionality, not becoming experts in open-source backing services.

Reviewer: Adverbs ending in ly shouldn't have a hyphen

```suggestion
Chances are you’re not in the message broker, database, or identity server business. So, then, why incur the cost and complexity of owning these items when someone else can do it better and for less? No matter how skilled you may be, it's unlikely that you can match the reliability and performance of the fully managed [Azure SQL Database](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/sql-database/) service in Azure, for example. That Microsoft team that owns it lives and breathes databases - that’s their business. While you, on the other hand, sell consumer items, provide medical services, or deliver packages. Do what you're good at and let others help you with the rest. Focus your effort on building outstanding customer functionality, not becoming experts in open-source backing services.
```

Reviewer: That Microsoft team that owns it lives and breathes databases -> This doesn't read well.

Perhaps
"The people working on the Microsoft team that owns [what? - that product?], they live and breathe databases all day"

Author: Perfect. Restated.

> All that said, cloud native systems are best built leveraging managed backing services from a cloud provider. Cloud providers manage these resources at scale and bear the responsibility for security, scalability, and maintenance. You can also count on comprehensive monitoring, configurable redundancy, and availability – built into the service. They are battle-tested, performant and ready to go!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With all that said, cloud native systems are best built leveraging managed backing services from a cloud provider. Cloud providers manage these resources at scale and bear the responsibility for security, scalability, and maintenance. You can also count on comprehensive monitoring, configurable redundancy, and availability – built into the service. They are battle-tested, performant, and ready to go!
```

> With all that said, cloud native systems are best built leveraging managed backing services from a cloud provider. Cloud providers manage these resources at scale and bear the responsibility for security, scalability, and maintenance. You can also count on comprehensive monitoring, configurable redundancy, and availability – built into the service. They are battle-tested, performant, and ready to go!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With all that said, cloud native systems are best built leveraging managed backing services from a cloud provider. Cloud providers manage these resources at scale and bear the responsibility for security, scalability, and maintenance. You can also count on comprehensive monitoring, configurable redundancy, and availability – built into the service. They're battle-tested, performant, and ready to go!
```

> As they are built on top of existing cloud technologies, these services are infinitely more agile and flexible than traditional offerings. The inherent benefits of scalability and resiliency make them an attractive proposition for developers. And like everything in the cloud, they are constantly tuned and optimized for speed, security, and performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As they're built on top of existing cloud technologies, these services are infinitely more agile and flexible than traditional offerings. The inherent benefits of scalability and resiliency make them an attractive proposition for developers. And like everything in the cloud, they're constantly tuned and optimized for speed, security, and performance.
```

> Not only do cloud-hosted backing services reduce cost, complexity, and risk, but these services are fully-supported by the cloud provider. If you have an issue, open a support ticket and the provider fixes it. It makes little sense for you to distract your focus scouring the web for a blog post that mentions an error code that you’re experiencing from your open-source service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not only do cloud-hosted backing services reduce cost, complexity, and risk, but these services are fully supported by the cloud provider. If you have an issue, open a support ticket and the provider fixes it. It makes little sense for you to distract your focus scouring the web for a blog post that mentions an error code that you’re experiencing from your open-source service.
```

Figure 1-8 shows managed services available on the Azure platform.

![Managed services in Azure](media/managed-services-in-azure.png)
**Figure 1-8**. Managed services in Azure

Understandably, you may have a concern with vendor lock-in. However, you must weigh this concern against that of bearing the full responsibility for hosting your own backing services. A smart approach might be to wrap each backing service inside of an abstraction shim, using a strategy pattern and externalized configuration. This way your code is decoupled from infrastructure concerns, giving you the ability to dynamically swap-out one backing service for another without a full redeployment of the system.

> Throughout this book, we will explore various types of cloud-managed backing services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Throughout this book, we'll explore various types of cloud-managed backing services.
```

## Thinking in terms of modern system design…

How would you design a cloud native app? What would your architecture look like? To what principles, patterns, and best practices would you adhere? We’ve talked about several key design patterns prevalent in cloud native systems, including cloud infrastructure, microservices, containers, and cloud-managed backing services. But, what about the application design process itself?

We’ll start with a widely accepted foundation for service design and then highlight some topics of critical importance.

### The 12-Factor Foundation

> A widely-accepted methodology often cited for constructing cloud native systems is the [Twelve-Factor Application](https://12factor.net/) Design Principles. Presented as a manifesto, it describes rules, guidelines, and best practices for building applications that are decoupled from their underlying platform, embrace continuous deployment, and leverage managed backing services. Although created in 2011, many practitioners consider these principles (or, some proximity to them) to be a solid foundation for building modern cloud native apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A widely accepted methodology often cited for constructing cloud native systems is the [Twelve-Factor Application](https://12factor.net/) Design Principles. Presented as a manifesto, it describes rules, guidelines, and best practices for building applications that are decoupled from their underlying platform, embrace continuous deployment, and leverage managed backing services. Although created in 2011, many practitioners consider these principles (or, some proximity to them) to be a solid foundation for building modern cloud native apps.
```

Author: Shortened

*Communication*

How will front-end client applications communicate with your backed-end core services? Will you allow direct communication? Or, might you abstract the backend services with a gateway façade that provides  flexibility, control, and security?

> Moreover, how will backend core services communicate with each other? Will you allow direct HTTP calls which lead to coupling and can decrease performance and agility? Or, might you consider decoupled messaging with queue and topic technologies?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover, how will back-end core services communicate with each other? Will you allow direct HTTP calls that lead to coupling and can decrease performance and agility? Or, might you consider decoupled messaging with queue and topic technologies?
```

*Resiliency*

> Microservices architectures move you from in-process to network communication. But, in this new distributed environment, what exactly will you do when Service B is not responding to a call from Service A? Or, how will you handle a scenario when a service is temporarily unavailable, but a large number of calls from other services, trying to reach it, back-up, and degrade overall network performance?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Microservices architectures move you from in-process to network communication. But, in this new distributed environment, what exactly will you do when Service B is not responding to a call from Service A? Or, how will you handle a scenario when a service is temporarily unavailable, but a large number of calls from other services, trying to reach it, back up, and degrade overall network performance?
```

We cover infrastructure automation in detail in the Cloud Native DevOps chapter of this book.

### Automating Code

Cloud native systems typically consist of numerous stand-alone, independent microservices, that can interact with each other when needed. Being self-contained, each of these services has its own life cycle. It would be expensive, inefficient, and error prone to attempt to *manually manage* each of these services.

Instead, each service is best managed with its own continuous integration/continuous delivery (CI/CD) pipeline, which together can work in tandem to deploy and manage a cloud-native application.

Hold your thought as we cover DevOps and CI/CD later in this chapter and in the book.

### Automating the Environment

A third critical aspect of automation is that of the environment in which the cloud native system runs.

To take full advantage of the underlying cloud infrastructure and it’s built features and services, we need a way to monitor and invoke the special features.

> We discuss monitoring, scaling, resiliency, and self-healing in this book

Reviewer: Is this finished?

### Orchestration

If you had only a handful of microservices, your DevOps *might* be able to manually manage the workload. They would need to pay close attention to the performance and traffic patterns, so they could manually scale accordingly. If, on the other hand, you have 10, 100 or even 1,000 services, all bets are off.

> When you’re operating at scale, [container orchestration](https://blog.newrelic.com/engineering/container-orchestration-explained/), is mandatory. Orchestration includes deployment, management, scaling, networking, and availability of your containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you’re operating at scale, [container orchestration](https://blog.newrelic.com/engineering/container-orchestration-explained/) is mandatory. Orchestration includes deployment, management, scaling, networking, and availability of your containers.
```

Container orchestration is done with a special software program called (you guessed it) a container orchestrator. While several are available, [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) has become the de facto standard for the cloud native world. The Azure cloud features Kubernetes as a managed service, [Azure Kubernetes Service](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/kubernetes-service/), which means that Kubernetes is provided to you as a service (Platform as a Service). You are not responsible for provisioning or maintaining the Kubernetes infrastructure – a career path in and of itself.

What exactly do containers orchestrators do? Figure 1-10 provides some insight.

![What container orchestrators do](media/what-container-orchestrators-do.png)

> **Figure 1-10**. What container orchestrators do

Reviewer: line 236, you have a broken button because of bad formatting 
It should be > not \<

Author: Resolved
